# Specification for Asset-Based Lending smart contract

This repository contains the specification of the smart contract
for Asset-Based Lending that can be implemented on the blockchain
platform that uses UTXO model, if the platform has the capabilities
for expressive enough covenants.

## Description in prose

Aims to describe the contract in a way that links the requirements
(what participants want to achieve) with the specification
(how the contract makes that possible)

Can be found in `ABL-spec-prose.pdf`

The source in Restructured Text is in `ABL-spec-prose.rst`

## Specification in [TLA+](https://lamport.azurewebsites.net/tla/tla.html)

Can be found in `ABL_with_partial_repayments.tla`, specifies the
variant with partial repayments.

This is a high-level specification, it does not specify the details
how the restrictions required for the contract are implemented
on the particular blockchain platform

Default values for constants can be found in `MC.tla`

`ABL_with_partial_repayments.pdf` is the spec rendered with `make pdf`

## Rendering the prose spec

To generate html from `ABL-spec-prose.rst`, you neeed:

[rst2html5.py](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/tools.html#rst2html5-py)
from the docutils package.

For math symbol rendering, [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org/) is used.

The generation command needs `MATHJAX_URL` environment variable to be set
to the the url of the MathJax.js file (can be a local `file://` url if you are
generating the file for local-only viewing).

To generate the html, run:

run `make prose`

The `ABL-spec-prose.pdf` in this repository is generated by printing the
html file to pdf file from the browser.

Alternatively, any other ways to convert `.rst` file to the rendered
document can be used, but the quality of results may vary.

## Working with TLA spec from command line

To run `TLC` on the spec via included Makefile instead of
TLA+ toolbox in unix-like environment, you need `tla2tools.jar`
from https://github.com/tlaplus/tlaplus/releases or your local
TLA+ toolbox installation.

Set environment variable `TLATOOLSDIR` to the path where
`tla2tools.jar` is located.

Make sure you have `java` in your `PATH`

run `make check` to apply `TLC` checker

run `make pdf` to generate PDF file for the TLA+ specification
(you need pdflatex to be in your `PATH` for that)

Note that when doing the model checking from the command line,
if you will need to do an exploration of the state log in case some invariant
or temporal property is violated, you will need the 1.7.0 of TLA+ tools.
For earlier versions, you will need to use GUI of TLA+ toolbox.

You might want to look a the [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pTN3nHvSm84&feature=youtu.be)
of how to work with trace log exploration from command line.
There's no specific target in Makefile for this at the moment.

## Authors and contributors

The contract specification is designed by Dmitry Petukhov

With review and help from Russell O'Connor
